Document Style updates for Signatures (#2105)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-message-signatures.md

1. Let the output be an empty string.
2. Determine an order for the component identifiers of the covered components, not including the `@signature-params` component identifier itself. Once this order is chosen, it cannot be changed. This order MUST be the same order as used in creating the signature base ({{create-sig-input}}).
3. Serialize the component identifiers of the covered components, including all parameters, as an ordered `inner-list` according to {{Section 4.1.1.1 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} and append this to the output.
4. Determine an order for any signature parameters. Once this order is chosen, it cannot be changed.
5. Append the parameters to the `inner-list` in the chosen order according to {{Section 4.1.1.2 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}},
    skipping parameters that are not available or not used for this message signature.
6. The output contains the signature parameters component value.

Note that the Inner List serialization from {{Section 4.1.1.1 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} is used for the covered component value instead of the List serialization from {{Section 4.1.1 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}}

> in order to facilitate parallelism with this value's inclusion the Signature-Input field,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in order to facilitate parallelism with this value's inclusion in the Signature-Input field,
```

# Including a Message Signature in a Message

Message signatures can be included within an HTTP message via the Signature-Input and Signature fields, both defined within this specification. When attached to a message, an HTTP message signature is identified by a label. This label MUST be unique within a given HTTP message and MUST be used in both the Signature-Input and Signature fields. The label is chosen by the signer, except where a specific label is dictated by protocol negotiations such as described in {{request-signature}}

An HTTP message signature MUST use both fields and each field MUST contain the same labels.

> The Signature-Input field identifies the covered components and parameters that describe how the signature was generated, while the Signature field contains the signature value. Each field contains labeled values and MAY contain multiple labeled values. The result of this constraint is that the Signature-Input and Signature Dictionaries are parallel data structures of each other. Any key found in one field but not in the other is an error.

Author: The constraint is that a signature uses both fields. The goal of the language change here is to show that there's a 1:1 mapping, and anything else is an error in the signature headers.

The proxy's signature and the client's original signature can be verified independently for the same message, based on the needs of the application. Since the proxy's signature covers the client signature, the backend service fronted by the proxy can trust that the proxy has validated the incoming signature.

# Requesting Signatures {#request-signature}

While a signer is free to attach a signature to a request or response without prompting, it is often desirable for a potential verifier to signal that it expects a signature from a potential signer using the Accept-Signature field.

> The message to which the requested signature is applied is known as the "target message". When the Accept-Signature field is sent in an HTTP request message, the field indicates that the client desires the server to sign the response using the identified parameters, and the target message is the response to this request. All responses from resources that support such signature negotiation SHOULD either be uncacheable or contain a Vary header field that lists Accept-Signature, in order to prevent a cache from returning a response with a signature intended for a different request.

Reviewer 2: I think the SHOULD should be a MUST if this is a security concern.

Author: @mnot I believe you had a reason that this can't be a MUST, right?

Reviewer 3: Is it a security concern or an interoperability one?

I'm not strongly against MUST, but wonder why it's a requirement at all - mentioning caching is fine, but making it a requirement is akin to saying 'Messages MUST be well-formed'.

Author: I do think there are some security implications -- if I'm requesting a signed response but I'm getting a cache hit for the signature then I'm going to have a higher level of confidence in the incorrect result than I would have otherwise. It's only a security risk if the cached signature is valid for a different message -- but that's more a case of the signature not covering an appropriately large amount of the message.

But I think this can even be addressed by recommending use of the `created` field on the signature parameters and letting the validator figure it out. I'm fine with it being listed as a consideration but removing the normative requirement here. I'll be the first to admit I'm not an expert on cache semantics and will defer to those who are.

Author: Left this text as is, since the text in question was not actually changed from a previous version. We can potentially add a recommendation for how to handle cache in a future PR.

|`@method`| The HTTP request method | Active | Request | {{content-request-method}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@authority`| The HTTP authority, or target host | Active | Request | {{content-request-authority}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@scheme`| The URI scheme of the request URI | Active | Request | {{content-request-scheme}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@target-uri`| The full target URI of the request | Active | Request | {{content-target-uri}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@request-target`| The request target of the request | Active | Request | {{content-request-target}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@path`| The full path of the request URI | Active | Request | {{content-request-path}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@query`| The full query of the request URI | Active | Request | {{content-request-query}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@query-param`| | A single named query parameter | Active | Request | {{content-request-query-param}} of {{&SELF}}|
|`@status`| The status code of the response | Active | Response | {{content-status-code}} of {{&SELF}}|
{: title="Initial contents of the HTTP Signature Derived Component Names Registry." }

## HTTP Signature Component Parameters Registry {#component-param-registry}

> This document defines a component identifiers, which can be parameterized in specific circumstances to provide unique modified behavior. IANA is asked to create and maintain a new registry typed "HTTP Signature Component Parameters" to record and maintain the set of non-field component names and the methods to produce their associated component values. Initial values for this registry are given in {{iana-component-param-contents}}.  Future assignments and modifications to existing assignments are to be made through the Expert Review registration policy {{?RFC8126}} and shall follow the template presented in {{iana-component-param-template}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines component identifiers, which can be parameterized in specific circumstances to provide unique modified behavior. IANA is asked to create and maintain a new registry typed "HTTP Signature Component Parameters" to record and maintain the set of parameters for component identifiers, and the methods to produce their associated parameter values. Initial values for this registry are given in {{iana-component-param-contents}}.  Future assignments and modifications to existing assignments are to be made through the Expert Review registration policy {{?RFC8126}} and shall follow the template presented in {{iana-component-param-template}}.
```

Author: Ugh, copy-paste mistakes here. Changing it to this instead:

```suggestion
This document defines several kinds of component identifiers, some of which can be parameterized in specific circumstances to provide unique modified behavior. IANA is asked to create and maintain a new registry typed "HTTP Signature Component Parameters" to record and maintain the set of parameters names, the component identifiers they are associated with, and the modifications these parameters make to the component value. Initial values for this registry are given in {{iana-component-param-contents}}.  Future assignments and modifications to existing assignments are to be made through the Expert Review registration policy {{?RFC8126}} and shall follow the template presented in {{iana-component-param-template}}.
```

### Registration Template {#iana-component-param-template}

{: vspace="0"}
Name:

> : A name for the parameter. The name MUST be an ASCII string consisting only of lower-case characters (`"a"` - `"z"`), digits (`"0"` - `"9"`), and hyphens (`"-"`), and SHOULD NOT exceed 20 characters in length.  The name MUST be unique within the context of the registry.

Reviewer: Can we reference Structured Fields here, instead of specifying the allowed characters?

Author: This is actually a smaller list than what's allowed for the `key` production rule in structured fields. I don't remember if there's a compelling reason for this though.

Reviewer: Looking again, it actually doesn't comply with the requirements for S-F parameter keys, since S-F does not allow parameter keys to start with numbers or hyphens. https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8941#section-3.1.2-3

I think that's a solid argument for referencing S-F here.

Description:
: A description of the parameter's function.

> Target:

Author: ```suggestion
Status:
: A brief text description of the status of the parameter. The description MUST begin with one of "Active" or "Deprecated", and MAY provide further context or explanation as to the reason for the status.

Target:
```
